---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Free will should remain free - structures should be structured
image: /assets/posts/bird.png
tags: [Philosophy]
---

<i>You <b>manage</b> to get out of bed in the morning. You <b>manage</b> to
get your clothes on, fix breakfast for the whole family, drive and drop kids
off at school.  You manage to get to job before 9. But then... you get
<b>managed</b> until 4pm.  Then at 4 you <b>manage</b> to drive home, stop by
the store, make food, drop one kid off at soccer practice and the other at the
tennis court. You <b>manage</b> play with your kids and <b>manage</b> to get
your body to sleep before midnight.</i>

You manage to do lots of stuff all around the clock. Except between 9 to 4.
Then you don't manage. You need managing.

![management](https://isene.org/assets/posts/management.jpg)

When you introduce <b>management</b> in a company, you limit employee
responsibility. You say that this one girl is responsible for all these
decisions and actions and results - and by that you limit every one else's
responsibility to not decide, do or deliver that. And then you have management
complaining that employees take to little responsibility and should "step it
up". Management, by it's very nature is the limiting of responsibility. It is
conditioning people to become less responsible. Heck, <i>any</i>
organizational structure inherently limits responsibility, creativity,
initiative, action, results. It limits free will.

Free will should remain free.

One way is to limit organizational structures to the barest minimum possible.
Another is to remove the concept of <i>employer</i> and <i>employee</i> by
getting everyone equally involved as owners.

While free will should remain free and we should let life be life - dead
objects are structures and they should be structured to help life be creative,
to decide, act and deliver great results.

This distinction dawned on me when Ã˜ivind asked me how come I am against the
structuring of people while at the same time I am super structured when it
comes to things and information... such as with
[HyperList](https://isene.org/hyperlist/).

Structures should serve life and help it be creative, not limit its free will.

---
Link to this post: <https://isene.org/2019/07/Management.html>
