---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Free resources. But why?
image: /assets/posts/give.jpg
tags: [Philosophy, Business, Personal, isene.org]
---

You will find a huge amount of free resources on my sites. From books,
articles and podcasts to blog posts, music, artwork, photography and code.

Guidance in life, coaching material, how to be kick-ass on stage, creating an
excellent CV, recruiting the right employees, leading teams to greatness, how
to overcome stress, how to enjoy life more, how to divorce, mental training,
how to help others... the list goes on and on.

But why give away everything for free? Is it to attract new clients?  Giving
the first fix for free? To generate interest? As a marketing ploy to hook
potential clients on to the "secret", paid services?

No - none of the above.

There are two reasons. I am almost continually overbooked as a consultant and
coach. It makes sense to put out all my thoughts, philosophy, techniques,
methods and tips for my new clients to freely access. It is more efficient to
let companies and individuals read and listen to what I put out rather than
spending time going over the same material again and again. The second reason
is that I am not in this for the money. I am in this to see others succeed.
And more people succeed when they can freely use everything I can give. I want
to help chenge the world, not focus on "what's in it for me".

Many have asked me how to become or be a better consultant, coach or mental
trainer. My first answer is to be <i>interested</i> rather than
<i>interesting</i>. Your focus should be to make others succeed rather than
make money. You should make sure everything you do help your clients move from
where thy are to where they want to be in the most effective way possible. Be
interested in their success. Help tham in any way you can.

Putting out free stuff <i>to attract attention</i> means you have focus on
what's in it for you. Your attention and interest is on you. Attention is on
inflow. You are interesting. Even when you outflow or give <i>in order to</i>
get something back. You are still interest<i>ing</i>. The focus should remain
on your client's succeeding, not what you get out of it.

This doesn't mean you shouldn't charge for your services.You charge in
accordance with the results you help produce. But that is not the
<i>focus</i>. 

When your focus is on you, when your attention is on inflow or attracting
attention, you become more stressed, more frantic and more [easily
hurt](https://isene.org/2018/09/Podcast-EasilyHurt.html).

Try striving to be like young Anakin Skywalker. As Qui-Gon Jinn said of him,
"He gives without any thought of reward." Or in the Dalai Lamas own words,
"The most compassionate form of giving is done with no thought or expectation
of reward, and grounded in genuine concern for others."

Worries arise when focusing on inflow. Focusing on inflow does not come from
worries.

Which is why it makes sense for me to give all this away for free. Enjoy.

![](https://isene.org/assets/posts/giving.jpg)

---
Link to this post: <https://isene.org/2020/06/FreeResources.html>
